I got a spicy take I think the only
reason Google made this announcement
that they have more than five trillion
searches per year is because so many
marketers and advertisers are talking
about investing in AI tools and Google
is trying to say hey wait if you think
CHT has you know a few hundred million
searches we're now over five trillion
you know we're not a hundred times as
big we're a thousand times as big as
them and that is why they made this
announcement for the first time in 9
years they haven't announced their
search numbers since
2016 quite incredible also incredible is
the timing of this piece because
yesterday this was published at 3:30
p.m. and at midnight I published some
new data from Doos showing information
about how many searches Americans
perform in Google in a month what's
incredible is I had no idea Google was
going to release this statement it's
just the data Gods being kind to us
thank you uh and we when we put this out
we're able to see a bunch of depth and
detail thanks to Do's multi-million
person panel about what's going on in
Google so for example we broke down the
searches search demand uh of American
Searchers into three cohorts which are
roughly the same size right it's like a
third a thirdd a third people who search
1 to 20 times a month 21 to 100 times a
month and one or more times a month
quite remarkable to see how many people
only search Google maybe once a day or
not even and how many people are
searching Google dozens or hundreds of
times per day we also looked at
verticals that Searchers use so
google.com the default you know web
interface and Google Images which is
absolutely huge if you think chat gbt
might be 1% or or maybe 2% of Google's
total volume today Google Images is 10%
it is a mass it's five times bigger at
least than all the search queries that
chat GPT receives Google video is on par
with how many search queries Google uh
chat gbt receives and YouTube is
probably bigger as well I think I'm
going to guess YouTube is similar in
size to Google Images we're going to
validate that next I have more data in
here uh it's on the spark Toro blog now
if you want to check it out and we'll
have even more research coming next week
thanks to DS's panel I think that one's
going to be a doozy